Welcome everyone to this lecture on portfolio optimization now that we have a nice metric in the Sharpe
ratio to evaluate portfolio allocations against each other how can we optimize the portfolio holdings
something we could do is we could just guess and check a bunch of random allocations and see which one
has the best sharp ratio.
Since we have powerful computers and we also know that we have pi to generate random numbers this sort
of technique could work for us randomly guessing and checking is sometimes known as a Monte simulation.
What we're going to do is we're going to randomly assign a weight to each security in our portfolio
then calculate its mean day the return and the standard deviation of daily return.
This allows us to calculate the Sherpa ratio for thousands of randomly selected allocations.
We can then plot the allocations on a chart showing return versus volatility colored by the Sharper's
issue.
So we're going to end up creating something like this on the y axis we have the return in on the x axis
we have the volatility.
And then on that color bar we have kind of a third dimension of the Sharpe ratio.
So we're looking for which random allocation ends up having the best Sharpe ratio.
And at that red dot there that is the top sharper issue and I want you to notice that there's kind of
a curve we're going to come back that later.
So as I mentioned that red dot it indicates the highest issue on this plot.
And this is where we're going to be creating with Python.
However as you may have guessed guessing and checking is not very efficient.
Instead we're also going to end up doing is we can use math to figure out the optimal Sharpe ratio for
any given portfolio.
And this is known as an optimization algorithm to really understand optimization algorithms we first
need to understand a concept known as minimization before we discuss optimization directly.
Let's go ahead and discuss minimization which is a pretty similar concept.
Let's say were given simple equations like why is equal to x squared or Y's equal to two minus sex squared.
What value of x will minimize the value of y in the first case.
That equation if you set X equal to zero then you end up getting Y is equal to zero.
So that's the value of x that's going to minimize y.
In the case of the second equation to mine is sex squared.
You can plug in X equals two then you'll have two minus 2 0 square.
And that gives the minimum value of Y which is zero.
This idea of using a minimizer is going to allow us to build an optimizer.
So there are mathematical ways of actually finding that minimum value.
And luckily for more complex equations such as an optimizer site pi which is another python library
can do the heavy math for us referring back to our Sharpe ratio and how it relates to that minimization
idea.
We actually want to do is maximize the Sharpe ratio.
Remember we're trying to figure out what allocations of stocks in our portfolio will give us the best
sharper ratio meaning that we can create an optimizer that will attempt to minimize the negative sharp
ratio.
So we're basically just going to do the inverse Sharpe ratio try to minimize that number and that will
end up being the best Sharper's show just in reverse since raising a minimizer to actually calculate
the optimal allocation.
So what we're actually going to do and working on this in Python is we will use site pie's built in
optimization algorithms to calculate the optimal weight allocation for our portfolio.
And we're going to optimize it based off the sharp ratio.
So we're going to do is go back to the return versus volatility plot.
Again one more time.
And what I wanted you to notice before was the actual shape of the plot and this sort of shape is sometimes
known as a bullet.
So this bullets or general shape of the curvature it seems create a border and this actually indicates
the highest return for volatility.
So you can imagine that at that actual border if you look at the x axis you have that particular volatility.
And if you jump and go along the y axis until you hit that border you'll end up getting the best return
for that volatility.
So anything below that border is probably a bad choice because you could have got a higher return for
the same amount of volatility.
So for instance if you're somewhere in the middle let's say 0.2 volatility on the x axis and you slowly
start to make your way up on the y axis you're going to get better and better returns for the same volatility
all the way until you hit that actual border point.
This border is known as the efficient frontier.
And this idea of being able to use this border in the efficient frontier is also sometimes known as
Marco its portfolio optimization.
And what we're going to end up doing is using Python to discover the sporter And we'll also plot it
out.
All right.
So in the next lecture we're going to walk through all of this using Python to calculate these metrics
and these topics.
Thanks everyone.
I'll see you at the next lecture.